---
title: Python Software Foundation Names New Deputy Executive Director
publishDate: '2025-05-01'
updatedDate: '2025-05-01'
author: Deb Nicholson
description: 'As the Python programming language continues to grow in popularity, our work here at PSF is also growing and evolving. To support our ongoing success, the Py...'
tags: []
published: true
legacyUrl: /2025/04/congrats-loren.html
---

As the Python programming language continues to grow in popularity, our work here at PSF is also growing and evolving. To support our ongoing success, the Python Software Foundation (PSF) is promoting Loren Crary to Deputy Executive Director effective immediately. "Loren Crary’s promotion to Deputy Executive Director is a testament to her outstanding contributions, both within and beyond her official scope as Director of Resource Development. Her leadership and dedication have been instrumental in advancing the Python Software Foundation’s mission, and her new role marks another fantastic step forward for our organization. The entire community benefits from her vision and expertise, and we are thrilled she has accepted this position." Dawn Wages, PSF Board Chair Crary’s work at the PSF has been exemplary and she is constantly widening the frame on the work that she does here. This promotion serves to formally recognize that Loren’s role here has expanded, and that her increased responsibility is part of our ongoing plan to set the PSF up for continued growth and success. “When people step up and show that they are willing to learn and change and grow, it’s a huge win for small organizations like the PSF. I’m so glad that we can promote Loren and look forward to many more years with her here at the PSF.” Deb Nicholson, PSF Executive Director Loren has been serving the PSF for over three years as our Director of Resource Development and has been continually deepening her responsibilities. She will continue to bolster our strategic planning and budgeting processes with the Board and staff. She will also continue to provide support for our Program Director, Olivia Sauls, on the planning and execution of PyCon US going forward. Loren will also continue her stewardship of the PSF’s revenue, including sponsorships and developing new revenue channels, and continue to collaborate with our Community Communications Manager, Marie Nordin, in her work on community, outgoing grants, and communication work across the whole organization. \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ *The mission of the Python Software Foundation is to promote, protect, and advance the Python programming language, and to support and facilitate the growth of a [diverse](https://www.python.org/psf/diversity/) and international community of Python programmers. You can help fund the PSF by [making a donation](https://www.python.org/psf/donations) or [becoming a member](https://www.python.org/psf/membership).*
