---
title: Distinguished Service Award Granted to Naomi Ceder
publishDate: '2022-07-21'
updatedDate: '2022-07-21'
author: Deb Nicholson
description: 'Naomi Ceder, a longtime Python activist and organizer has been recognized with the PSF’s Distinguished Service Award. Naomi served on the PSF Board from 2015...'
tags: []
published: true
legacyUrl: /2022/07/distinguished-service-award-granted-to.html
---

Naomi Ceder, a longtime Python activist and organizer has been recognized with the PSF’s Distinguished Service Award. Naomi served on the PSF Board from 2015-2020, and as Chair from 2017-2020, supported the search for a new Executive Director last year and [keynoted](https://www.naomiceder.tech/posts/pycon_keynote_2022/) the most recent PyCon US in Salt Lake City. The PSF’s Distinguished Service Award ([DSA](https://www.python.org/community/awards/psf-distinguished-awards/)) is granted to individuals who make sustained exemplary contributions to the Python community. Each award is voted on by the PSF Board and they are looking for people whose impact has positively and significantly shaped the Python world. Naomi’s work with the Python community very much exemplifies the ethos of “build the community you want to see.” She seems to particularly enjoy taking on the hardest parts, getting a new initiative started and figuring out how to take an idea from the drawing board to a regular activity that we can’t imagine leaving out. After receiving the award Naomi shared, "I'm so grateful for the recognition, and even more grateful for all of the support that our community has given me over the years. I'm excited to see a new generation of Python volunteers continue the work to make our community and the PSF more global and inclusive, and I'm looking forward to working with smaller communities as they grow and develop." Over the years Naomi has taken on many leadership roles to make PyCon US successful and welcoming. She served as Chair of the Hatchery Program and she helped found PyCon Charlas, our Spanish language track. At different points in time, she’s also been the Co-chair of Sprints, an Organizer of the PyCon Education Summit and Chair for poster sessions at PyCon US. She also co-founded [Trans\*Code](https://www.trans.tech), an on-going series of hackdays (mostly) in the UK, which aims to build community and foster tech education and skills for transgender and non-binary folks. PyCon US and the global Python community would not look like it does without her tireless, largely behind the scenes work. Her deep thoughtfulness coupled with her energy is an immeasurable gift to the Python community. Curious about previous recipients of the DSA or wondering how to nominate someone? [We got you](https://www.python.org/community/awards/psf-distinguished-awards/).  

#toc, .toc, .mw-warning { border: 1px solid #aaa; background-color: #f9f9f9; padding: 5px; font-size: 95%; }#toc h2, .toc h2 { display: inline; border: none; padding: 0; font-size: 100%; font-weight: bold; }#toc #toctitle, .toc #toctitle, #toc .toctitle, .toc .toctitle { text-align: center; }#toc ul, .toc ul { list-style-type: none; list-style-image: none; margin-left: 0; padding-left: 0; text-align: left; }#toc ul ul, .toc ul ul { margin: 0 0 0 2em; }#toc .toctoggle, .toc .toctoggle { font-size: 94%; }p, h1, h2, h3, li { }body{ padding-top : 1in; padding-bottom : 1in; padding-left : 1in; padding-right : 1in; }
