---
title: 'Python Developers Survey 2021: Python is everywhere'
publishDate: '2022-06-03'
updatedDate: '2022-06-03'
author: Deb Nicholson
description: We are excited to announce the results of the fifth official annual Python Developers Survey. This work is done each year as a collaborative effort between t...
tags: []
published: true
legacyUrl: /2022/06/python-developers-survey-2021-python-is.html
---

We are excited to announce the results of the fifth official annual Python Developers Survey. This work is done each year as a collaborative effort between the Python Software Foundation and JetBrains. Late last year, more than 23,000 Python developers and enthusiasts from almost 200 countries/regions participated in the survey to reveal the current state of the language and the ecosystem around it. Python is being used by the vast majority (84%) of survey respondents as their primary language and by many others as just one more tool in their box. Interestingly, only 29% of the Python developers involved in data analysis and machine learning consider themselves to be Data Scientists. And like past years, many use Python in conjunction with other popular development and data tools like SQL, Jupyter Notebook, Virtualenv, Docker or with the most popular web development technologies including Django, Javascript and HTML.  [Results of the 2021 Python Developers Survey](https://lp.jetbrains.com/python-developers-survey-2021/#PythonPackaging) This is also the first time we have packaging information in the survey. It was interesting to see the wide range of tools that Python users are employing for their packaging tasks. The PSF is currently focusing on improving the packaging ecosystem and building a roadmap for the future of packaging. We hope you will continue sharing your opinions with us on this part of your work so that we can continue improving.  [Here's a link to the raw data, if you want to go deeper.](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1BaImG13GefSTe3ZGa4DEYwomP-gQ0DzE/view?usp=sharing)  If you do look at the raw data and discover things you think the community would be interested in, we hope you’ll let us know. Please share your thoughts on Twitter or other social media, mentioning [@jetbrains](https://twitter.com/jetbrains) and [@ThePSF](https://twitter.com/ThePSF) with the #pythondevsurvey hashtag. We are also open to any suggestions and feedback related to this survey which could help us run an even better one next time. You are also encouraged to open issues [here](https://github.com/python/python-dev-survey/issues) or join the conversation on [our forum](http://discuss.python.org/).
