---
title: Python Language Summit EuroPython 2010
publishDate: '2010-07-22'
updatedDate: '2010-07-22'
author: Doug Hellmann
description: This summary was written by Tim Golden. Before the main events of EuroPython 2010 a Python Language Summit took place at the Conference venue in Birmingham. ...
tags:
  - europython
  - development
  - language
  - pycon
published: true
legacyUrl: /2010/07/python-language-summit-europython-2010.html
---

*This summary was written by Tim Golden.*

Before the main events of EuroPython 2010 a Python Language Summit took place at the Conference venue in Birmingham. Present were (in the order they sat around the table):

-   Brett Cannon
-   Guido van Rossum
-   Holger Krekel
-   Amaury Forgeot D'Arc
-   Georg Brandl
-   Péter Szabó
-   Ezio Melotti
-   Michael Foord
-   Mark Dickinson
-   Martin von Loewis
-   Ronald Oussoren
-   Tim Golden
-   Marc-André Lemburg
-   Richard Jones

#### Implementation Status Reports

Michael initiated a round-up of current and prospective Python versions for various implementations. CPython and [IronPython](http://ironpython.net/) have both just released v2.7 with IronPython offering some Python 3 compatibility via a command-line switch. The recent/current migration of [Numpy](http://numpy.scipy.org/) and [SciPy](http://www.scipy.org/) to Python 3 should give a boost to uptake.

Amaury confirmed that [PyPy](http://codespeak.net/pypy/) currently supports 2.5.2 but is looking to target 2.7. The PyPy guys also announced a C API bridging layer which should enable a range of Python extension modules to work directly with PyPy. This is only a stepping stone by way of broadening support.

Brett suggested that the [Unladen Swallow](http://code.google.com/p/unladen-swallow/) merge to trunk was waiting for some work to complete on the JIT compiler and Georg, as release manager for 3.2, confirmed that Unladen Swallow would not be merged before 3.3.

#### email Module

The email module needs some work in Python 3. David Murray has been given some money by the PSF but needs more from other sources to complete the work. This is hampered by the legalities around commercial organisations making donations to not-for-profits when those donations are earmarked. Various suggestions were put forward with no-one sure of the legal issues. Guido suggested that we should move forward rather than stall for want of legal advice.

#### WSGI Update

A broad discussion arose concerning the issues debated on [web-sig](http://www.python.org/community/sigs/current/web-sig/) concerning the [WSGI](http://wsgi.org/) protocol and the bytes vs string issues. Marc-André brought up the **cgi** module which has similar issues under Python 3 and other examples were given, including **ftplib**, **urllib**, and some **os** functions.

Various solutions were put forward including a hybrid bytes-with-encoding object. This proposal was widely unpopular, but two proposals met with broad approval: that certain stdlib functions might be polymorphic, returning the type of their input as output; and that the encoding string should include its error-handling. An example of the first would be that os.getenv("HOME") would return "/home/tjg" while os.getenv(b"HOME") would return b"/home/tjg". An example of the latter would be "utf8:strict". Something of the sort already works for PYTHONIOENCODING.

The issue of a \_\_format\_\_ equivalent for bytes was also raised as was the idea of object methods to render an object as string or bytes, which could be used in the polymorphic functions above.

#### Stable Application Binary Interface

Martin spoke about the state of the stable ABI PEP ([PEP-384](http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0384/)), indicating that he was targeting 3.2. This work would reduce the need to recompile extension modules separately on Windows for every version of Python -- something especially pertinent when code has been orphaned but is still useful.

The versioned .so files PEP ([PEP-3149](http://python.org/dev/peps/pep-3149/)) being worked out by Barry Warsaw overlaps with PEP 384, and would only be useful for extensions which don't target the stable ABI.

#### Garbage Collection

A messy discussion turned on the question of garbage collection of module objects, and the order in which finalisers are called if at all, especially when reference cycles exist. Marc-André was proposing a \_\_cleanup\_\_ magic function for Python modules, which would enable the implementer to define the order in which resources are released / closed down. This is quite a subtle area and raised the issue of unfinalised objects in a reference cycle whose memory has been freed out from under them but which still exist. Martin described the Java approach where finalisers are called once and then flagged so they are not called again, even if their object is resurrected. This sounded like a useful approach for Python, but would break code which expected to be able to resurrect an object during its \_\_del\_\_ method, which is not expected to account for much code.

Guido pointed out that no-one can be expected to hold enough of the complexities of this area of Python's implementation in their head, and that an implementation of some sort would need to be written so that the corner-cases could emerge.

#### Mac OS X

Ronald described the issues around the version and architecture differences on Mac OS X and especially around Tkinter (and therefore IDLE). It was agreed that two installers could be provided: one targeting OS 10.3 on 32-bit Intel/PPC; the other targeting 10.6 on 32 and 64-bit Intel. This latter would then be able to use the system's Tk 8.5. The 10.6 binary would also work for 10.5, which would be indicated in the install docs.

#### Mercurial Migration

The Mercurial migration should move forward once Dirkjan has finished work on his thesis. Martin insisted that a for-real repository would have to be set up so that people can really see how it would work. An outstanding issue in hg-svn prevents the Python history from being imported, but it should be fixable. Martin & Tim brought up the issue of externals, which the buildbots use on Windows to bring in and build slightly patched versions of external libraries such as OpenSSL and sqlite3.

Brett confirmed that he would like to see the stdlib broken out into its own repository which could then be shared between the different Python implementations.

#### Python Package Index

A discussion on the [Cheeseshop / Package Index](http://pypi.python.org/) highlighted the fact that the packaging infrastructure has become increasingly important, especially since [setuptools](http://pypi.python.org/pypi/setuptools), [buildout](http://pypi.python.org/pypi/zc.buildout), and [pip](http://pypi.python.org/pypi/pip) all download from it. Richard produced graphs showing the increase in package downloads over time, and attributed the recent slight tail-off to the fact that the tool-chains are now becoming more canny with respect to caching and mirroring.

Martin & Richard confirmed that mirrors are now in place, and Marc-André confirmed that he would be putting together a proposal to have [PyPI](http://pypi.python.org/) hosted in the cloud. Guido pointed out that if an AppEngine implementation were desirable, he was sure that AppEngine team would support it with resources as needed. Martin didn't feel that there was a problem with loading on the box in question; it's the uptime that's behind people's concern as it's now so essential to installing and deploying Python applications.

Several people outlined the recent heated discussion over the addition of a checkbox to the PyPI user-registration pages. Tarek has already undertaken to patch PyPI to move the checkbox back one step, allowing existing distutils users to register from the command line. At the same time, Brett advised removing that functionality from distutils2 as signing up on a web page is no great hardship.
