---
title: 2014 Year in Review
publishDate: '2015-01-19'
updatedDate: '2015-01-19'
author: Unknown
description: 'Happy New Year from the PSF! 2014 was an eventful year for the Python community, and so we thought a brief rundown of highlights from last year should put us...'
tags: []
published: true
legacyUrl: /2015/01/2014-year-in-review.html
---

# Happy New Year from the PSF!

# 2014 was an eventful year for the Python community, and so we thought a brief rundown of highlights from last year should put us all in the right frame of mind to make 2015 an equally, or even more, productive year. There was so much activity in 2014, that it will take the next couple of blog posts to cover it all, so today's post will focus on membership growth, PSF funding, and conferences. In 2014 the PSF revised the membership rules, creating a new category of "Basic Membership." We now have over 2000 Basic Members in addition to our Sponsoring, Supporting, Contributing, and Managing Members and Fellows. The community has also grown on social media, with followers totaling more than 100K on Facebook, 91K on Google+, and 41K on Twitter. This increased inclusivity is good news, since the mission of the PSF is to promote the use and knowledge of Python. The more, the merrier. However, this does not mean a dilution of the power and quality of the language or of the community of users. Rather, this is a recognition of the necessity and value of Pythonistas at all levels of technical mastery—from core developers, through daily professional users, through occasional users, to hobbyists, to anyone who believes computer technology and literacy is and will continue to be the intellectual currency of the 21st century, and that open-source, freely available, non-proprietary access to the way the world works is important. 2014 also saw an explosion of Python-related events and conferences around the world. The PSF was delighted to fund many conferences. In total, $78,853.41 USD was given for conference scholarships and $11,270.37 went to workshops. The list includes *Django Weekend*, *PyCon Philippines*, *Python FOSDEM* in Brussels, *PyCon Australia* in Brisbane, *PyData London*, *PyCon Brasil*, *DjangoCon Europe*, *PyCon APAC*, *PyCon Italia*, *PyOhio*, *Python Camp* in Cologne, *SciPy* in Austin, *PyCon Kiwi* in Wellington, *PyCon Russia*, *PyData Berlin*, *PyCon ES*, *PyCon Japan*, *PyConZA*, *Python Argentina*, *PyTexas*, and in NYC, both *PyGotham* and *PyData*. In support of the PSF's commitment to education and diversity, we also sponsored programs including *Bangalore PyLadies' Introduction to Python Workshop*, *Gnome Outreach Program for Women Summer Internship*, the *Kivy Contest*, *Young Coders* in Nashville Public Schools and at *PyTennessee*, and *UNB Saint John Department of Computer Science Python Game Programming Camp*. The PSF also gave a grant enabling 20 teachers to attend *PyCon UK*, funded *Django Girls* all around the world (at *EuroPython*, and in Warsaw, Budapest, Edinburgh, Uganda, Krakow, and Kampala), *Code Chix* in the Bay area, *Cyberjutsu Girls Academy*, *Geek Girls Carrots*, and *Teen Python Camp* in Peru. Additional grants allowed Python programming projects, education, and conference attendance to become reality for many more Pythonistas. If you know of someone(s) deserving and desiring of financial assistance in order to attend a conference, or otherwise participate, let us know. We have limited resources, but these resources exist for the purpose of advancing the mission of the PSF—and that means helping you in your Python endeavors. And, of course, April's PyCon 2014 in Montreal was a great success. More on this next time. P.S If you are not yet a member of the PSF, you can sign up at the [python.org website](https://www.python.org/psf-landing/). And be sure to visit the [Python Events Calendar](https://www.python.org/events/python-events) to keep current on what's happening and to post your organization's events.
